README.md, before:

# Description

The purpose of this small library is to simulate single-muscle experiments using mathematical muscle models that have been implemented in LS-DYNA. 

# Quick Start

- Read Kleinbach et al.
- Download the source code for Kleinbach et al. from: https://zenodo.org/
record/826209
- Add in the ZEROIN method from Forsythe et al.
- Compile a verson of LS-DYNA that includes the user material from Kleinbach et al. (this requires a special LS-DYNA license.
- Open `main_comparisonUmat.m` and update the `lsdynaBin_SMP_931` and `matlabScriptPath`
- Set both `flag_runSimulations`, and `flag_postProcessSimulationData` to 1.
- Choose which benchmark simulations you would like to run by setting the flags `flag_runIsometricSimulations`, `flag_runConcentricSimulations`, `flag_runQuickReleaseSimulations`, `flag_runEccentricSimulations`.
- Run `main_comparisonUmat.m`
- The output plots will appear in the `output` folder.

# Simulations of experiments

Numerical simulations of experiments appear in the folders SMP_931, which refers to a Single core Multiple Processor version of LS-DYNA version 9.31. The list of experiments currently includes:

- isometric (Gunther et al)
- concentric (Gunther et al)
- quickrelease (Gunther et al)
- eccentric (Herzog and Leonard)
- impedance (Kirsch et al.)

The LS-DYNA scripts necessary to run the experiments appear in SMP_931/ while the data from the experiments appears in ReferenceExperiments/. 


## References

- Forsythe, G.E.; Malcolm, M.A.; Moler, C.B.: Computer Methods for Mathematical Computations. Prentice Hall Professional Technical Reference, 1977
- Günther M, Schmitt S, Wank V. High-frequency oscillations as a consequence of neglected serial damping in Hill-type muscle models. Biological cybernetics. 2007 Jul;97(1):63-79.
- Herzog W, Leonard TR. Force enhancement following stretching of skeletal muscle: a new mechanism. Journal of Experimental Biology. 2002 May 1;205(9):1275-83.
- Kirsch RF, Boskov D, Rymer WZ. Muscle stiffness during transient and continuous movements of cat muscle: perturbation characteristics and physiological relevance. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering. 1994 Aug;41(8):758-70.
- Kleinbach C, Martynenko O, Promies J, Haeufle DF, Fehr J, Schmitt S. Implementation and validation of the extended Hill-type muscle model with robust routing capabilities in LS-DYNA for active human body models. Biomedical engineering online. 2017 Dec;16(1):1-28.

Commit message:

Added license data to 1/3 of the files. Updated the umat41 common files and the readUmat41 script to be compatiable with EHTM 4.0 - the publicly available version of EHTM

README.md, after:

# Description

The purpose of this small library is to simulate single-muscle experiments using mathematical muscle models that have been implemented in LS-DYNA. 

# Quick Start

- Read Kleinbach et al.
- Download the source code for Kleinbach et al. from: https://zenodo.org/
record/826209
- Add in the ZEROIN method from Forsythe et al.
- Compile a verson of LS-DYNA that includes the user material from Kleinbach et al. (this requires a special LS-DYNA license.
- Open `main_comparisonUmat.m` and update the `lsdynaBin_SMP_931` and `matlabScriptPath`
- Set both `flag_runSimulations`, and `flag_postProcessSimulationData` to 1.
- Choose which benchmark simulations you would like to run by setting the flags `flag_runIsometricSimulations`, `flag_runConcentricSimulations`, `flag_runQuickReleaseSimulations`, `flag_runEccentricSimulations`.
- Run `main_comparisonUmat.m`
- The output plots will appear in the `output` folder.


# Simulations of experiments

Numerical simulations of experiments appear in the folders SMP_931, which refers to a Single core Multiple Processor version of LS-DYNA version 9.31. The list of experiments currently includes:

- isometric (Gunther et al)
- concentric (Gunther et al)
- quickrelease (Gunther et al)
- eccentric (Herzog and Leonard)
- impedance (Kirsch et al.)

The LS-DYNA scripts necessary to run the experiments appear in SMP_931/ while the data from the experiments appears in ReferenceExperiments/. 


# Licensing

All of the code and files in this repository are covered by the license mentioned in the SPDX file header which makes it possible to audit the licenses in this code base using the ```reuse lint``` command from https://api.reuse.software/. A full copy of the license can be found in the LICENSES folder. To keep the reuse tool happy even this file has a license:

 SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Matthew Millard <millard.matthew@gmail.com>

 SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

## References

- Forsythe, G.E.; Malcolm, M.A.; Moler, C.B.: Computer Methods for Mathematical Computations. Prentice Hall Professional Technical Reference, 1977
- Günther M, Schmitt S, Wank V. High-frequency oscillations as a consequence of neglected serial damping in Hill-type muscle models. Biological cybernetics. 2007 Jul;97(1):63-79.
- Herzog W, Leonard TR. Force enhancement following stretching of skeletal muscle: a new mechanism. Journal of Experimental Biology. 2002 May 1;205(9):1275-83.
- Kirsch RF, Boskov D, Rymer WZ. Muscle stiffness during transient and continuous movements of cat muscle: perturbation characteristics and physiological relevance. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering. 1994 Aug;41(8):758-70.
- Kleinbach C, Martynenko O, Promies J, Haeufle DF, Fehr J, Schmitt S. Implementation and validation of the extended Hill-type muscle model with robust routing capabilities in LS-DYNA for active human body models. Biomedical engineering online. 2017 Dec;16(1):1-28.
